[Codelab]: Building a resilient search experience  with Workbox (#3260)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/reliable/codelab-building-resilient-search-experiences/index.md

---
layout: codelab
title: Building resilient search experiences with Workbox
authors:
  - demianrenzulli
  - jeffposnick
date: 2020-06-17
description: |
  How to implement a resilient search experience with Workbox, using  Background Sync and the Push API.

> glitch: resilient-search-codelab

Reviewer: ```suggestion
glitch: resilient-search-codelab
related_post: resilient-search-experiences
```

---
layout: codelab

> title: Building a resilient search experience with Workbox

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Building resilient search experiences with Workbox
```
Aligning with the name of the guide

authors:
  - demianrenzulli
  - jeffposnick
date: 2020-06-17
description: |
  How to implement a resilient search experience with Workbox, using  Background Sync and the Push API.
glitch: resilient-search-codelab
---

This codelab shows you how to implement a resilient search experience with Workbox. The demo app it uses contains a search box that calls a server endpoint, and redirects the user to a basic HTML page.

{% Aside %} 
This codelab uses [Chrome DevTools](https://www.google.com/chrome/). Download Chrome if you don't already have it. 
{% endAside %}

## Measure

Before adding optimizations, it's always a good idea to first analyze the current state of the application.

{% Instruction 'remix' %}
{% Instruction 'preview' %}

In the new tab that just opened, check how the website behaves when going offline:

{% Instruction 'devtools-network', 'ol' %}
1. Open Chrome DevTools and select the Network panel.
1. In the [Throttling drop-down list](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/network/reference#throttling), select **Offline**.

> 1. In the demo app enter a search query, and click on the search button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the demo app enter a search query, then click the **Search** button.
```

## Provide a fallback response

The service worker contains the code to add the offline page to the [precache list](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/workbox/modules/workbox-precaching#explanation_of_the_precache_list), so it can always be cached at the service worker `install` event.

Usually you would need to instruct Workbox to add this file to the precache list at build time, by integrating the library with your build tool of choice (e.g. [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) or [gulp](https://gulpjs.com/)).

For simplicity, we've already done it for you. The following code at `public/sw.js` does that:

```javascript
const FALLBACK_HTML_URL = ‘/index_offline.html’;
…
workbox.precaching.precacheAndRoute([FALLBACK_HTML_URL]);
```

{% Aside %} 
To learn more about how to integrate Workbox with build tools, check out the [webpack Workbox plugin](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/workbox/modules/workbox-webpack-plugin) and the [Gulp Workbox plugin](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/workbox/guides/codelabs/gulp).
{% endAside %}

Next, add code to use the offline page as a fallback response:

> {% Instruction 'preview' %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% Instruction 'source', 'ol' %}
```

```javascript
const matchNotificationUrl = ({url}) => {
  const notificationParam = url.searchParams.get('notification');
  return (url.pathname === '/search_action' && (notificationParam === 'true'));
};

workbox.routing.registerRoute(matchNotificationUrl,
  new workbox.strategies.CacheFirst({
     cacheName: 'offline-search-responses',
  })
);
```

Finally, add the code to show notifications:

```javascript
function showNotification(notificationUrl) {
  if (Notification.permission) {
     self.registration.showNotification('Your search is ready!', {
        body: 'Click to see you search result',
        icon: '/img/workbox.jpg',
        data: {
           url: notificationUrl
        }
     });
  }
}

self.addEventListener('notificationclick', function(event) {
  event.notification.close();
  event.waitUntil(
     clients.openWindow(event.notification.data.url)
  );
});
```

## Test the feature

1. Go back to the other tab that is running your app.
1. Set the **Throttling** drop-down list back to **Online**.
1. Press Chrome's **Back** button to navigate back to the search page.

> 1. Make sure that the **Disable cache** checkbox in DevTools is disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
